Updates for Gatekeeper integration (#4950)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: governance/gatekeeper_policy.adoc

[#gatekeeper-policy]
= Integrating gatekeeper constraints and constraint templates

> Gatekeeper is a validating webhook that enforces custom resource definition based policies that are run with the Open Policy Agent (OPA). You can install gatekeeper on your cluster by using the gatekeeper operator policy. Gatekeeper policy can be used to evaluate Kubernetes resource compliance. You can leverage a OPA as the policy engine, and use Rego as the policy language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatekeeper is a validating webhook with auditing capabilities that can enforce custom resource definition-based policies that are run with the Open Policy Agent (OPA). You can install gatekeeper on your cluster by using the gatekeeper operator policy. Gatekeeper policy can be used to evaluate Kubernetes resource compliance. You can leverage a OPA as the policy engine, and use Rego as the policy language.
```

> Gatekeeper is a validating webhook with auditing capabilities that can enforce custom resource definition-based policies that are run with the Open Policy Agent (OPA). You can install Gatekeeper on your cluster by using the Gatekeeper operator policy. Gatekeeper policy can be used to evaluate Kubernetes resource compliance. You can leverage a OPA as the policy engine, and use Rego as the policy language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatekeeper is a validating webhook with auditing capabilities that can enforce custom resource definition-based policies that are run with the Open Policy Agent (OPA). You can install Gatekeeper on your cluster by using the Gatekeeper operator policy. Gatekeeper policies can be used to evaluate Kubernetes resource compliance. You can leverage OPA as the policy engine, and use Rego as the policy language.
```

> Gatekeeper policies include constraint templates  (`ConstraintTemplates`) and `Constraints`, audit templates, and admission templates. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following constraint templates in your {product-title-short} gatekeeper policy:

Reviewer: `Constraints` is not a type.
```suggestion
Gatekeeper policies include constraint templates  (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints, audit templates, and admission templates. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following constraint templates in your {product-title-short} gatekeeper policy:
```

> Gatekeeper policies include constraint templates  (`ConstraintTemplates`) and `Constraints`, audit templates, and admission templates. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following constraint templates in your {product-title-short} gatekeeper policy:

Reviewer: What are audit templates and admission templates?

Author: At the time that i wrote this, I believe I was referring to the name of the configuration policy

> Gatekeeper policies include constraint templates  (`ConstraintTemplates`) and `Constraints`, audit templates, and admission templates. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following constraint templates in your {product-title-short} gatekeeper policy:

Reviewer: What do you mean by "View the following constraint templates in your {product-title-short} gatekeeper policy"?

Also, Gatekeeper should be capitalized.

Author: Updated

> Gatekeeper policies support constraint templates (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following YAML examples that use constraints in your {product-title-short} Gatekeeper policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatekeeper policies are written using constraint templates (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following YAML examples that use constraints in your {product-title-short} Gatekeeper policy:
```

> Gatekeeper policies support constraint templates (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following YAML examples that use constraints in your {product-title-short} Gatekeeper policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatekeeper policies support constraint templates (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following YAML examples that uses a Gatekeeper constraint in a {product-title-short} policy:
```

> Gatekeeper policies include constraint templates  (`ConstraintTemplates`) and `Constraints`, audit templates, and admission templates. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. {product-title-short} supports version 3.3.0 for Gatekeeper and applies the following constraint templates in your {product-title-short} gatekeeper policy:

Author: @mprahl should 3.3.0 be updated to 3.9? I think i removed the correct statement, let me know

Reviewer: I think we should remove the version from this sentence. ACM supports the Gatekeeper versions ACM distributes.

> Gatekeeper policies are written using constraint templates (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following YAML examples that use Gatekeeper constraints in your {product-title-short} policy:

Reviewer: Did you mean this?
```suggestion
Gatekeeper policies are written using constraint templates (`ConstraintTemplates`) and constraints. For more information, see the link:https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository]. View the following YAML examples that use Gatekeeper constraints in {product-title-short} policies:
```

> * `ConstraintTemplates` and constraints: Use the Gatekeeper integration feature by using policies for multicluster distribution of Gatekeeper constraints and Gatekeeper audit results aggregation on the hub cluster. The following example defines a Gatekeeper `ConstraintTemplate` and constraint (`K8sRequiredLabels`) to ensure the `gatekeeper` label is set on all namespaces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ConstraintTemplates` and constraints: Use the Gatekeeper integration feature by using {product-title-short} policies for multicluster distribution of Gatekeeper constraints and Gatekeeper audit results aggregation on the hub cluster. The following example defines a Gatekeeper `ConstraintTemplate` and constraint (`K8sRequiredLabels`) to ensure the `gatekeeper` label is set on all namespaces:
```

[#gatekeeper-policy]
= Integrating gatekeeper constraints and constraint templates

Gatekeeper is a validating webhook that enforces custom resource definition based policies that are run with the Open Policy Agent (OPA). You can install gatekeeper on your cluster by using the gatekeeper operator policy. Gatekeeper policy can be used to evaluate Kubernetes resource compliance. You can leverage a OPA as the policy engine, and use Rego as the policy language.

> The gatekeeper policy is created as a Kubernetes configuration policy in {product-title-short}. Gatekeeper policies include constraint templates  (`ConstraintTemplates`) and `Constraints`, audit templates, and admission templates. For more information, see the https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper#gatekeeper[Gatekeeper upstream repository].

Reviewer: Could we remove the documentation about wrapping the Gatekeeper constraints in a ConfigurationPolicy? By that, I mean this paragraph and the YAML example just below this.

                  count(missing) > 0
                  msg := sprintf("you must provide labels: %v", [missing])
                }
    - objectDefinition:
        apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
        kind: K8sRequiredLabels
        metadata:
          name: ns-must-have-gk
        spec:
          enforcementAction: dryrun
          match:
            kinds:
              - apiGroups: [""]
                kinds: ["Namespace"]
          parameters:

>             labels: ["gatekeeper"] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            labels: ["gatekeeper"]
```

+
With the previous policy, you might receive the following policy status message: `warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace default); warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace gatekeeper-system)`. Once a policy containing Gatekeeper constraints or `ConstraintTemplates` is deleted, the constraints and `ConstraintTemplates` are also deleted from the managed cluster.
+
To view the Gatekeeper audit results for a specific managed cluster from the console, navigate to the policy template _Results_ page. If search is enabled, view the YAML of the Kubernetes objects that failed the audit. *Note:* The _Related resources_ section is only available when the audit results are generated by Gatekeeper version 3.9 or newer.

> * `policy-gatekeeper-audit`: Use the `policy-gatekeeper-audit` to periodically check and evaluate existing resources against the gatekeeper policies that are enforced to detect existing misconfigurations. 

Reviewer: This example should be removed because of the Gatekeeper integration feature in 2.8.

+
With the previous policy, you might receive the following policy status message: `warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace default); warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace gatekeeper-system)`. Once a policy containing Gatekeeper constraints or `ConstraintTemplates` is deleted, the constraints and `ConstraintTemplates` are also deleted from the managed cluster.
+
To view the Gatekeeper audit results for a specific managed cluster from the console, navigate to the policy template _Results_ page. If search is enabled, view the YAML of the Kubernetes objects that failed the audit. 

*Notes:* 

- The _Related resources_ section is only available when the audit results are generated by Gatekeeper version 3.9 or newer.
- The Gatekeeper audit functionality runs every minute by default. Audit results are sent back to the hub cluster to be viewed in the {product-title-short} policy status of the managed cluster.

//is the following note relevant? should 

> //*Note:* The Gatekeeper audit functionality runs every minute by default. Audit results are sent back to the hub cluster to be viewed in the {product-title-short} policy status of the managed cluster.

Author: @mprahl

        status:
          totalViolations: 0
----
+

> *Note:* The Gatekeeper audit functionality runs every minute by default. Audit results are sent back to the hub cluster to be viewed in the policy status of the managed cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* The Gatekeeper audit functionality runs every minute by default. Audit results are sent back to the hub cluster to be viewed in the {product-title-short} policy status of the managed cluster.
```

> * admission template: Use the `policy-gatekeeper-admission` to check for Kubernetes API requests denied by the gatekeeper admission webhook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* admission template: Use the `policy-gatekeeper-admission` configuration policy within a {product-title-short} policy to check for Kubernetes API requests denied by the gatekeeper admission webhook:
```

        status:
          totalViolations: 0
----
+
*Note:* The Gatekeeper audit functionality runs every minute by default. Audit results are sent back to the hub cluster to be viewed in the policy status of the managed cluster.
+

> - audit template using policies: Use the Gatekepper audit feature on your hub cluster by using policies for multicluster distribution and Gatekeeper audit results aggregation. The following example defines a Gatekeeper `ConstraintTemplate` and constraint (`K8sRequiredLabels`) to ensure the `gatekeeper` label is set on all namespaces. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- audit template using policies: Use the Gatekeeper audit feature on your hub cluster by using policies for multicluster distribution and Gatekeeper audit results aggregation. The following example defines a Gatekeeper `ConstraintTemplate` and constraint (`K8sRequiredLabels`) to ensure the `gatekeeper` label is set on all namespaces. 
```

Reviewer 2: typo

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: require-gatekeeper-labels-on-ns
spec:

>   remediationAction: inform <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  remediationAction: inform
```

>   remediationAction: inform <1>

Reviewer: That way the YAML can be directly copied without alteration for the customer to experiment with.
```suggestion
  # See <1> below
  remediationAction: inform
```

Author: Disagreeing with this suggestion bc it doesn't align with the IBM Style Guide. We avoid directional terms. It's clear that you are looking to add a "hidden comment" in the example. From my perspective, the comment is unnecessary bc the description is displayed after the YAML example. It'll appear similar to the following image:
<img width="520" alt="Screenshot 2023-04-24 at 10 40 47 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60616885/234030753-1d3b830e-02fa-4a06-812e-720bd3dc8656.png">

Here is the link where I found the example: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.5/html/installing_on_aws/installing-on-aws

If you want to still add the comment, I recommend that we state the following: `# Review the description after viewing the example`

  disabled: false
  policy-templates:
    - objectDefinition:
        apiVersion: templates.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
        kind: ConstraintTemplate
        metadata:
          name: k8srequiredlabels
        spec:
          crd:
            spec:
              names:
                kind: K8sRequiredLabels
              validation:
                openAPIV3Schema:
                  properties:
                    labels:
                      type: array
                      items: string
          targets:
            - target: admission.k8s.gatekeeper.sh
              rego: |

>                 package k8srequiredlabels                violation[{"msg": msg, "details": {"missing_labels": missing}}] {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                package k8srequiredlabels
                violation[{"msg": msg, "details": {"missing_labels": missing}}] {
```

                  provided := {label | input.review.object.metadata.labels[label]}
                  required := {label | label := input.parameters.labels[_]}
                  missing := required - provided
                  count(missing) > 0
                  msg := sprintf("you must provide labels: %v", [missing])
                }
    - objectDefinition:
        apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
        kind: K8sRequiredLabels
        metadata:
          name: ns-must-have-gk
        spec:
          enforcementAction: dryrun
          match:
            kinds:
              - apiGroups: [""]
                kinds: ["Namespace"]
          parameters:
            labels: ["gatekeeper"] 
----
+

> <1> Since the `remediationAction` is set to `inform`, the Gatekeeper constraint, `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `warn`. This means that Gatekeeper detects and warns you about creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label. If the policy `remediationAction` is set to `enforce`, the Gatekeeper constraint `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `deny`. In this context, this configuration prevents any user from creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Since the `remediationAction` is set to `inform`, the Gatekeeper constraint's `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `warn`. This means that Gatekeeper detects and warns you about creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label. If the policy `remediationAction` is set to `enforce`, the Gatekeeper constraint `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `deny`. In this context, this configuration prevents any user from creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label.
```

Author: Disagree with this suggestion as it doesn't align with [IBM style guide](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-possessives). I suggest the following statement: 

<1> Since the `remediationAction` is set to `inform`, the `enforcementAction` field of the Gatekeeper constraint is overridden to `warn`.

Reviewer: That works for me.

> <1> Since the `remediationAction` is set to `inform`, the Gatekeeper constraint, `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `warn`. This means that Gatekeeper detects and warns you about creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label. If the policy `remediationAction` is set to `enforce`, the Gatekeeper constraint, `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `deny`. In this context, this configuration prevents any user from creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label.

Reviewer 2: This confuses me a little:
If the policy `remediationAction` is set to `enforce`, the Gatekeeper constraint, `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `deny`.

Thinking an extra comma? 
Possible alt:
If the policy `remediationAction` is set to `enforce`, the Gatekeeper field for the  constraint `enforcementAction` is overridden to `deny`.

Author: Updated !

+

> With the previous policy, you might receive the following message: `warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace default); warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace gatekeeper-system)`. Once a policy containing Gatekeeper constraints or `ConstraintTemplates` is deleted, the constraints and `ConstraintTemplates` are also deleted from the managed cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the previous policy, you might receive the following policy status message: `warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace default); warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace gatekeeper-system)`. Once a policy containing Gatekeeper constraints or `ConstraintTemplates` is deleted, the constraints and `ConstraintTemplates` are also deleted from the managed cluster.
```

> With the previous policy, you might receive the following message: `warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace default); warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace gatekeeper-system)`. Once a policy containing Gatekeeper constraints or ConstraintTemplates is deleted, the constraints and ConstraintTemplates in the policy are also deleted from the managed cluster.

Reviewer 2: Should ConstraintTemplates be in monospace?

Author: Updated!

        status:
          totalViolations: 0
----
+
*Note:* The Gatekeeper audit functionality runs every minute by default. Audit results are sent back to the hub cluster to be viewed in the policy status of the managed cluster.
+

> - audit template using policies: Use the Gatekeeper audit feature on your hub cluster by using policies for multicluster distribution and Gatekeeper audit results aggregation. The following example defines a Gatekeeper `ConstraintTemplate` and constraint (`K8sRequiredLabels`) to ensure the `gatekeeper` label is set on all namespaces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ConstraintTemplates` and constraints: Use the Gatekeeper integration feature by using policies for multicluster distribution of Gatekeeper constraints and Gatekeeper audit results aggregation on the Hub. The following example defines a Gatekeeper `ConstraintTemplate` and constraint (`K8sRequiredLabels`) to ensure the `gatekeeper` label is set on all namespaces. 
```

          name: ns-must-have-gk
        spec:
          enforcementAction: dryrun
          match:
            kinds:
              - apiGroups: [""]
                kinds: ["Namespace"]
          parameters:
            labels: ["gatekeeper"] 
----
+
<1> Since the `remediationAction` is set to `inform`, the `enforcementAction` field of the Gatekeeper constraint is overridden to `warn`. This means that Gatekeeper detects and warns you about creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label. If the policy `remediationAction` is set to `enforce`, the Gatekeeper constraint `enforcementAction` field is overridden to `deny`. In this context, this configuration prevents any user from creating or updating a namespace that is missing the `gatekeeper` label.
+
With the previous policy, you might receive the following policy status message: `warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace default); warn - you must provide labels: {"gatekeeper"} (on Namespace gatekeeper-system)`. Once a policy containing Gatekeeper constraints or `ConstraintTemplates` is deleted, the constraints and `ConstraintTemplates` are also deleted from the managed cluster.
+

> To view the Gatekeeper audit results for a specific managed cluster from the console, navigate to the policy template _Results_ page. If search is enabled, view the YAML of the Kubernetes objects that failed the audit. *Note:* The _Related resources_ section is only available when the audit results are generated by the latest Gatekeeper version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the Gatekeeper audit results for a specific managed cluster from the console, navigate to the policy template _Results_ page. If search is enabled, view the YAML of the Kubernetes objects that failed the audit. *Note:* The _Related resources_ section is only available when the audit results are generated by Gatekeeper version 3.9 or newer.
```

> * admission template: Use the `policy-gatekeeper-admission` to check for misconfigurations that are created by the gatekeeper admission webhook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* admission template: Use the `policy-gatekeeper-admission` to check for Kubernetes API requests denied by the gatekeeper admission webhook:
```
